[W-11723892] Adding VPN risk docs (#620)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/vpn-maintenance.adoc

== Anypoint VPN Update

> MuleSoft Anypoint VPN is a managed service that is underpinned by AWS Site-to-Site VPN connections. For any integrations or flows that require connectivity to your on-premises or other external platforms, VPN is key to this connectivity. Updating an Anypoint VPN that is not set up with at least a pair of tunnels using BGP routing will experience a downtime. See xref:vpn-high-availability.adoc[Anypoint VPN High Availability] for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MuleSoft Anypoint VPN is a managed service that is underpinned by AWS Site-to-Site VPN connections. VPN is key for any integrations or flows that require connectivity to your on-premises or other external platforms. Updating an Anypoint VPN that is not set up with at least a pair of tunnels using BGP routing will cause downtime. See xref:vpn-high-availability.adoc[Anypoint VPN High Availability] for more information.
```

> After the October 2022 quarterly maintenance window, Anypoint VPN will no longer be able to support quarterly customer self-upgrades. From this point forward, updates made to Anypoint VPN will adhere to AWS's standard continuous upgrade process. Upgrades will be applied on-demand, with no published maintenance window scheduled, no customer opt-in self-upgrade capabilities, with *potential (limited) downtime for customers that do not have a* xref:vpn-high-availability.adoc[High Availability (HA) VPN implementation].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the October 2022 quarterly maintenance window, Anypoint VPN will no longer support quarterly customer self-upgrades. From this point forward, updates made to Anypoint VPN will adhere to AWS's standard continuous upgrade process. Upgrades will be applied on-demand, with no published maintenance window schedule, no customer opt-in self-upgrade capabilities, with *potential (limited) downtime for customers that do not have a* xref:vpn-high-availability.adoc[High Availability (HA) VPN implementation].
```

> MuleSoft recommends that all customers plan to deploy a xref:vpn-high-availability.adoc[high-availability VPN] solution to avoid any downtime associated with these AWS delivered security updates. Please review the below section for recommendations and troubleshooting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploy a xref:vpn-high-availability.adoc[high-availability VPN] solution to avoid any downtime associated with these AWS-delivered security updates. Review the below section for recommendations and troubleshooting.
```

> == Avoiding or Reducing Downtime During an on-demand maintenance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Avoiding or Reducing Downtime During an On-demand Maintenance
```

> Mule applications that use Anypoint VPN connectivity are impacted during the on-demand maintenance. However, the impact on the Anypoint VPN varies depending on the VPN configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mule applications that use Anypoint VPN connectivity are impacted during the on-demand maintenance. The impact on the Anypoint VPN varies depending on the VPN configuration:
```

* An Anypoint VPN with at least one pair of tunnels configured with BGP routing and DPD (Dead Peer Detection) to reset the tunnels when triggered incurs minimal downtime. The switchover takes a few seconds. See https://help.mulesoft.com/s/article/DPD-Dead-Peer-Detection-and-Anypoint-VPN-Virtual-Private-Networking[this article^] for an explanation of DPD and VPN.
* An Anypoint VPN tunnel pair configured with Static routing incurs some downtime before reconnection. The reconnection takes longer if you do not have an automated failover mechanism to detect failed tunnels.
* For an Anypoint VPN configured without BGP routing or a failover mechanism or with only one tunnel configured, the outage is up to 60 minutes long while the update occurs and the original tunnel comes back up.

> == Troubleshoot Issues During an Anypoint VPN on-demand maintenance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Troubleshoot Issues During an Anypoint VPN On-demand Maintenance
```

> These are some of the possible issues you may encounter during the on-demand maintenance:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are some of the possible issues you may encounter during the On-demand Maintenance:
```

=== Tunnels not Coming Up

If the tunnels are not back up within 10-15 minutes at any point in time, try restarting your end of the tunnels to bring them back up.

If your VPN is configured with static routing, try generating 'interesting' traffic towards the Anypoint VPN to bring up the VPN. See https://help.mulesoft.com/s/article/How-to-Generate-Interesting-Traffic-for-Anypoint-VPN[How to Generate Interesting Traffic for Anypoint VPN^] for more information.

=== Tunnel is Going Down Due to Inactivity

> If there is no traffic over the VPN tunnel, it goes down due to inactivity. Generate interesting traffic. The recommendation is for customers to move towards BGP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there is no traffic over the VPN tunnel, it goes down due to inactivity. In this case, generate interesting traffic. We recommend you move towards BGP.
```
